# Diwali_Sales_Data_Analysis

# ******** About the Data ********
* I have a dataset of Diwali Sales in csv .
* with column's name (User_ID	,Cust_name	,Product_ID	,Gender	,Age ,Group	,Age	,Marital_Status,	State	Zone	,Occupation,	Product_Category	,Orders	,Amount	,Status	,unnamed1).
* In data  has some column with null values.

# ******** Data Cleaning *********
* Firstly I checked to make changes in my data.
* we use csv_file.info() -> to look my data like datatype of column or is there any null value in my data or not.
* Then we Dropped last two column . by using dropna() method .
* and drop rows with null values by using dropna(data, axis = 0).
* Then Change the datatype of Amount column from 'float64' to 'int64'.

 # ****** Data Exploratory Analysis **********
  On the basis of this data we have to analyze that :
 *  how many orders have placed by each Gender and how much revenue have generated by each gender .
 * how many orders have placed by marital status and how much revenue have generated by different marital status .
 * How many orders have placed by each State and how much  revenue have generated by each State.
 * From which Occupation , maximum orders have placed and it's revenue .

   # Conclusion :
   
  The majority of orders are placed by female customers in the 26–35 age group, primarily from the IT and Healthcare sectors in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. While their highest number of purchases is in 'Clothing      and Apparel,' their highest expenditure is observed in the 'Food' category.
